# Capital Bikeshare Predictions
The original goal of the Capital Bikeshare Prediction project was to predict how long it a ride would take given data points like rider type (casual or registered), start station, end station, and weather. A new goal was also added, which was to predict the rider type based on the same data as it was difficult to accurately predict the ride time of a trip.
<br><br>
The initial model uses all of the data to predict the ride times using Linear Regression. However, building an accurate model while using the entire dataset proved to be difficult as there is a lot of variance in the ride times for casual riders. Two more models were built: one for registered riders and one for casual riders. The registered riders model proved to be a little more accurate than the overall model and the casual rider model was worse, which was to be expected. The loss function used to determine the best model is the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), which shows the average difference in time predictions and the actual values. 
<br><br>
The second goal of predicting the rider type (casual or registered) was added due to the performance of the ride time prediction models. The different models included Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, and Random Forests. The best model was selected by reviewing the accuracy of predictions, the precision, the recall, and the receiver operating characteristic (ROC).
# Additional Variables Added
Additional data points were added to each ride provided in the dataset. An attribute was added, called 'rush_hour' that shows whether the ride took place during the two rush hour periods in DC. Another attribute was added for the distance to a metro station entrance based on the start station of the Capital Bikeshare ride. The last 'new' variable added was the shortest distance to a DC landmark (ex. the National Mall, the Capitol building, the White House) based on the start station and the end station of the Capital Bikeshare ride.

# Github Folders
Within this repository, there are 4 folders with the final models selected: one for the time prediction using the full dataset, one for the time prediction of registered riders, one for the time prediction of casual riders, and one for the prediction of the rider type. Addional folders include heat maps GIFs of popular starting stations for Capital Bikeshare rides (GIFs located [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B6_vx5KzXEc_cnNVM3prYVBDQ0k)), a folder for all of the added variables, and a folder containing files for setting up the data for prediction.
